docs/configuration.md, before:

# Configuration language
see [terminologies](./docs/terminology.md) for unclear terms.
## Basics
- Each service unit can be configured using yaml.
- Each service unit can be defined by configuring set of primary adapters that is exposes to other serivce units.
- Each primary adapter can be defined by assigning an array of secondary adapters.
- Both primary and secondary adapters can be a variant of stateless, stateful, or broker. see [Configuration](#configuration)for possible values.

## Configuration
### Service Unit
| Parameter     | Description                                   | Default     | Required    |
|---------------|-----------------------------------------------|-------------|-------------|
| name          | Name of the service.                          | ""          | true        |
| version       | Version of the image used.                    | ""          | true        |
| deployment    | [Deployment configs](#deployment).            | {}          | false       |
| adapters      | List of [Primary Adapter Configs](#primary-adapter).| []    | true        |

### Deployment
| Parameter     | Description                                   | Default     | Required    |
|---------------|-----------------------------------------------|-------------|-------------|
| replicas      | Number replicas for the service.              | 1           | false       |
| gateway       | Configuration for load generator. Should be defined if you want to enable load generator for the service. | {} | false |
| gateway.virtualUsers | Number of virtual users.               | 0           | true        |
| gateway.duration     | Duration of the load test in minutes.  | 0           | true        |
| resources     | Resource limit and request in k8s core v1 format.    | {}      | false    |
| env           | Extra environmental variables in k8s core v1 format. | {}      | false    |

### Primary Adapter
Primary adapter can be type of server, repository, or cosumer and only one of the configuration should be given.
| Parameter     | Description                                   | Default     | Required    |
|---------------|-----------------------------------------------|-------------|-------------|
| server        | Configuration for [server](#server).          | {}          | false       |
| repository    | Configuration for [repository](#repository).  | {}          | false       |
| consumer      | Configuration for [consumer](#consumer).      | {}          | false       |
| steps         | List of secondary adapters attached to primary adapter. | [] | false |
| steps[].concurrent | Whether to execute the step concurrently. | false      | false        |
| steps[].adapter | Configuration for the [Secondary Adatper](#seconday-adapter). | {} | true |

## Validation
- configuration file written in yaml can be validated using the [cli](../cmd/hexctl/).
- two types of validations:
    - field validation: checks if fields of the configuration file is valid.
    - mapping validation: checks if secondary adapter can be mapped to the destination primary adapter.
- field validation is also ran inside of Service unit once the config file is loaded.

Commit message:

config values for server primary adapter

docs/configuration.md, after:

# Configuration language
see [terminologies](./docs/terminology.md) for unclear terms.
## Basics
- Each service unit can be configured using yaml.
- Each service unit can be defined by configuring set of primary adapters that is exposes to other serivce units.
- Each primary adapter can be defined by assigning an array of secondary adapters.
- Both primary and secondary adapters can be a variant of stateless, stateful, or broker. see [Configuration](#configuration)for possible values.

## Configuration
### Service Unit
| Parameter     | Description                                   | Default     | Required    |
|---------------|-----------------------------------------------|-------------|-------------|
| name          | Name of the service.                          | ""          | true        |
| version       | Version of the image used.                    | ""          | true        |
| deployment    | [Deployment configs](#deployment).            | {}          | false       |
| adapters      | List of [Primary Adapter Configs](#primary-adapter).| []    | true        |

### Deployment
| Parameter     | Description                                   | Default     | Required    |
|---------------|-----------------------------------------------|-------------|-------------|
| replicas      | Number replicas for the service.              | 1           | false       |
| gateway       | Configuration for load generator. Should be defined if you want to enable load generator for the service. | {} | false |
| gateway.virtualUsers | Number of virtual users.               | 0           | true        |
| gateway.duration     | Duration of the load test in minutes.  | 0           | true        |
| resources     | Resource limit and request in k8s core v1 format.    | {}      | false    |
| env           | Extra environmental variables in k8s core v1 format. | {}      | false    |

### Primary Adapter
Primary adapter can be type of server, repository, or cosumer and only one of the configuration should be given.
| Parameter     | Description                                   | Default     | Required    |
|---------------|-----------------------------------------------|-------------|-------------|
| server        | Configuration for [server](#server).          | {}          | false       |
| repository    | Configuration for [repository](#repository).  | {}          | false       |
| consumer      | Configuration for [consumer](#consumer).      | {}          | false       |
| steps         | List of secondary adapters attached to primary adapter. | [] | false |
| steps[].concurrent | Whether to execute the step concurrently. | false      | false        |
| steps[].adapter | Configuration for the [Secondary Adatper](#seconday-adapter). | {} | true |

### Server
Server configuration is defined in the unit of individual routes in REST APi.
Each definition of server primary adapter corresponds to a route attached to REST API.

*For gRPC server, while gRPC does not have the concept of routes, the unit of configuration is the same, 
meaning that each definition will represent independent execution of secondary adapters.*
| Parameter     | Description                                   | Default     | Required    |
|---------------|-----------------------------------------------|-------------|-------------|
| variant       | Variant of the server. "rest" or "grpc"       | ""          | true        |
| action        | Action for the route. "post" or "get" for rest and "simpleRpc", "clientStream", "serverStream", or "biStream" for grpc | "" | true |
| route         | Unique identifier for the route.               | ""          | true        |
| payload       | Size of the payload that this route returns. Can be "small", "medium", or "large" | "medium" | false |
| weight        | Weight for the route to be called when load generator is enabled for the service. If load generator is not enabled, the field will be ignored | 0 | false |
| payloadCount  | Number of payloads to return for grpc route with serverStream action. | 3 | false |

## Validation
- configuration file written in yaml can be validated using the [cli](../cmd/hexctl/).
- two types of validations:
    - field validation: checks if fields of the configuration file is valid.
    - mapping validation: checks if secondary adapter can be mapped to the destination primary adapter.
- field validation is also ran inside of Service unit once the config file is loaded.
